README.md, before:

![Image of PHP](https://cdn.openbridge.com/assets/images/openbridge-php-small.png)

# Overview

This is a Docker image creates a high performance, optimized container for PHP-FPM. The image also includes configuration enhancements for;
* Alpine Linux
* Opcache
* Dynamic Resource Allocation
* Monitoring
* Security
* and many others.

# Versioning
| Docker Tag | Git Hub Release | PHP Version | Alpine Version |
|-----|-------|-----|--------|
| 7.3 | 7.3 | 7.3.x | 3.11 |
| 7.4 | develop | 7.4.x | 3.13 |
| latest | develop | 7.4.x | 3.13 |

# Build
```
docker build -t openbridge/ob_php-fpm .
```
or pull from Docker Hub:
```
docker pull openbridge/ob_php-fpm
```
# Run
Here is a simple run command:
```bash
docker run -it --rm \
    -p 9000:9000 \
    -e "APP_DOCROOT=/app " \
    --name php-fpm \
    openbridge/php-fpm
```
Via Docker compose (see `docker-compose.yml` in the repo)
```
docker-compose up -d
```
# Setting Your `APP_DOCROOT`

The default root app directory is `/app`. If you want to change this default you need to see `APP_DOCROOT` via ENV variable. For example, if you want to use `/html` as your root you would set `APP_DOCROOT=/html`

IMPORTANT: The `APP_DOCROOT` should be the same directory that you use within NGINX for the `NGINX_DOCROOT`. Incorrectly setting the root for your web and applciation files is usually is the basis for most config errors.

# Docker Volume
To mount your web app or html files you will need to mount the volume on the host that contains your files. Make sure you are setting the `APP_DOCROOT` in your run or `docker-compose.yml` file
```docker
-v /your/webapp/path:{{APP_DOCROOT}}:ro
```
You can also set the cache directory to leverage in-memory cache like `tmpfs`:
```docker
-v /tmpfs:{{CACHE_PREFIX}}:ro
```

You can do the same thing for config files if you wanted to use versions of what we have provided. Just make sure you are mapping locations correctly as NGINX and PHP expect files to be in certain locations.

# Environment Variables
You can set the optional ENV variable resources for the container:
```
APP_DOCROOT=/app
PHP_FPM_PORT=9000
PHP_START_SERVERS=16
PHP_MIN_SPARE_SERVERS=8
PHP_MAX_SPARE_SERVERS=16
PHP_MEMORY_LIMIT=256
PHP_POST_MAX_SIZE=50
PHP_UPLOAD_MAX_FILESIZE=50
PHP_MAX_INPUT_VARS=1000
PHP_MAX_EXECUTION_TIME=300
PHP_OPCACHE_ENABLE=1
PHP_OPCACHE_MEMORY_CONSUMPTION=96
PHP_MAX_CHILDREN=16

```
However, you don't have to set any if you do not want. The default app root will be set to `app` and the default port will be `9000`. Also, the resource allocations for PHP will be calculated dynamically if they are not set (see below).


## Dynamic Resource Allocation
The PHP and cache settings are a function of the available system resources. This allocation factors in available memory and CPU which is assigned proportionately. The proportion of resources was defined according to researched best practices and reading PHP docs.

```bash
# Determine the PHP-FPM runtime environment

 CPU=$(grep -c ^processor /proc/cpuinfo); echo "${CPU}"
 TOTALMEM=$(free -m | awk '/^Mem:/{print $2}'); echo "${TOTALMEM}"

 if [[ "$CPU" -le "2" ]]; then TOTALCPU=2; else TOTALCPU="${CPU}"; fi

 # PHP-FPM settings
 if [[ -z $PHP_START_SERVERS ]]; then PHP_START_SERVERS=$(($TOTALCPU / 2)) && echo "${PHP_START_SERVERS}"; fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_MIN_SPARE_SERVERS ]]; then PHP_MIN_SPARE_SERVERS=$(($TOTALCPU / 2)) && echo "${PHP_MIN_SPARE_SERVERS}"; fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_MAX_SPARE_SERVERS ]]; then PHP_MAX_SPARE_SERVERS="${TOTALCPU}" && echo "${PHP_MAX_SPARE_SERVERS}"; fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_MEMORY_LIMIT ]]; then PHP_MEMORY_LIMIT=$(($TOTALMEM / 2)) && echo "${PHP_MEMORY_LIMIT}"; fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_MAX_CHILDREN ]]; then PHP_MAX_CHILDREN=$(($TOTALCPU * 2)) && echo "${PHP_MAX_CHILDREN}"; fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_POST_MAX_SIZE ]]; then PHP_POST_MAX_SIZE="50"; else PHP_POST_MAX_SIZE="${PHP_POST_MAX_SIZE}" fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_UPLOAD_MAX_FILESIZE ]]; then PHP_UPLOAD_MAX_FILESIZE="50"; else PHP_UPLOAD_MAX_FILESIZE="${PHP_UPLOAD_MAX_FILESIZE}" fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_MAX_INPUT_VARS ]]; then PHP_MAX_INPUT_VARS="1000"; else PHP_MAX_INPUT_VARS="${PHP_MAX_INPUT_VARS}" fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_MAX_EXECUTION_TIME ]]; then PHP_MAX_EXECUTION_TIME="300"; else PHP_MAX_EXECUTION_TIME="${PHP_MAX_EXECUTION_TIME}" fi

 # Opcache settings
 if [[ -z $PHP_OPCACHE_ENABLE ]]; then PHP_OPCACHE_ENABLE=1 && echo "${PHP_OPCACHE_ENABLE}"; fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_OPCACHE_MEMORY_CONSUMPTION ]]; then PHP_OPCACHE_MEMORY_CONSUMPTION=$(($TOTALMEM / 6)) && echo "${PHP_OPCACHE_MEMORY_CONSUMPTION}"; fi

 # Set the listening port
 if [[ -z $PHP_FPM_PORT ]]; then echo "PHP-FPM port not set. Default to 9000..." && export PHP_FPM_PORT=9000; else echo "OK, PHP-FPM port is set to $PHP_FPM_PORT"; fi
 # Set the document root. This is usually the same as your NGINX docroot
 if [[ -z $APP_DOCROOT ]]; then export APP_DOCROOT=/app && mkdir -p "${APP_DOCROOT}"; fi
 ```


# PHP-FPM Configuration
The following represents the structure of the PHP configs used in this image:

```bash
{
      echo '[global]'
      echo 'include=/etc/php7/php-fpm.d/*.conf'
} | tee /etc/php7/php-fpm.conf

{
      echo '[global]'
      echo 'error_log = {{LOG_PREFIX}}/error.log'
      echo
      echo '[www]'
      echo '; if we send this to /proc/self/fd/1, it never appears'
      echo 'access.log = {{LOG_PREFIX}}/access.log'
      echo
      echo 'clear_env = no'
      echo '; ping.path = /ping'
      echo '; Ensure worker stdout and stderr are sent to the main error log.'
      echo 'catch_workers_output = yes'
} | tee /etc/php7/php-fpm.d/docker.conf

{
      echo '[global]'
      echo 'daemonize = no'
      echo 'log_level = error'
      echo
      echo '[www]'
      echo 'user = www-data'
      echo 'group = www-data'
      echo 'listen = [::]:{{PHP_FPM_PORT}}'
      echo 'listen.mode = 0666'
      echo 'listen.owner = www-data'
      echo 'listen.group = www-data'
      echo 'pm = static'
      echo 'pm.max_children = {{PHP_MAX_CHILDREN}}'
      echo 'pm.max_requests = 1000'
      echo 'pm.start_servers = {{PHP_START_SERVERS}}'
      echo 'pm.min_spare_servers = {{PHP_MIN_SPARE_SERVERS}}'
      echo 'pm.max_spare_servers = {{PHP_MAX_SPARE_SERVERS}}'
} | tee /etc/php7/php-fpm.d/zz-docker.conf

{
      echo 'max_execution_time={{PHP_MAX_EXECUTION_TIME}}'
      echo 'memory_limit={{PHP_MEMORY_LIMIT}}M'
      echo 'error_reporting=1'
      echo 'display_errors=0'
      echo 'log_errors=1'
      echo 'user_ini.filename='
      echo 'realpath_cache_size=2M'
      echo 'cgi.check_shebang_line=0'
      echo 'date.timezone=UTC'
      echo 'short_open_tag=Off'
      echo 'session.auto_start=Off'
      echo 'upload_max_filesize={{PHP_UPLOAD_MAX_FILESIZE}}M'
      echo 'post_max_size={{PHP_POST_MAX_SIZE}}M'
      echo 'file_uploads=On'
      echo 'file_uploads=On'
      echo 'max_input_vars={{PHP_MAX_INPUT_VARS}}'

      echo
      echo 'opcache.enable={{PHP_OPCACHE_ENABLE}}'
      echo 'opcache.enable_cli=0'
      echo 'opcache.save_comments=1'
      echo 'opcache.interned_strings_buffer=8'
      echo 'opcache.fast_shutdown=1'
      echo 'opcache.validate_timestamps=2'
      echo 'opcache.revalidate_freq=15'
      echo 'opcache.use_cwd=1'
      echo 'opcache.max_accelerated_files=100000'
      echo 'opcache.max_wasted_percentage=5'
      echo 'opcache.memory_consumption={{PHP_OPCACHE_MEMORY_CONSUMPTION}}M'
      echo 'opcache.consistency_checks=0'
      echo 'opcache.huge_code_pages=1'
      echo
      echo ';opcache.file_cache="{{CACHE_PREFIX}}/fastcgi/.opcache"'
      echo ';opcache.file_cache_only=1'
      echo ';opcache.file_cache_consistency_checks=1'
} | tee /etc/php7/conf.d/50-setting.ini
```

# Permissions
We have standardized on the user, group and UID/GID to work seamlessly with NGINX

```docker
&& addgroup -g 82 -S www-data \
&& adduser -u 82 -D -S -h /var/cache/php-fpm -s /sbin/nologin -G www-data www-data \
```
We are also makign sure all the underlying permissions and owners are set correctly:

```bash
echo "Setting ownership and permissions on APP_DOCROOT and CACHE_PREFIX... "
find ${APP_DOCROOT} ! -user www-data -exec /usr/bin/env bash -c 'i="$1"; chown www-data:www-data "$i"' _ {} \;
find ${APP_DOCROOT} ! -perm 755 -type d -exec /usr/bin/env bash -c 'i="$1"; chmod 755  "$i"' _ {} \;
find ${APP_DOCROOT} ! -perm 644 -type f -exec /usr/bin/env bash -c 'i="$1"; chmod 644 "$i"' _ {} \;
find ${CACHE_PREFIX} ! -perm 755 -type d -exec /usr/bin/env bash -c 'i="$1"; chmod 755  "$i"' _ {} \;
find ${CACHE_PREFIX} ! -perm 644 -type f -exec /usr/bin/env bash -c 'i="$1"; chmod 644 "$i"' _ {} \;
```

# Cache
Opcache is enabled by default. The available cache memory is determined by the available system resources.

The cache directory is mapped to `tmpfs` as follows int he compose file:
```
tmpfs:
  - /var/cache
```

# Logging
Logs are sent to stdout and stderr PHP-FPM.
You will likely want to dispatch these logs to a service like Amazon Cloudwatch. This will allow you to setup alerts and triggers to perform tasks based on container activity.

# Monitoring
Services in the container are monitored via Monit. One thing to note is that if Monit detects a problem with PHP-FPM it will issue a `STOP` command. This will shutdown your container because the image uses `CMD ["php-fpm7", "-g", "/var/run/php-fpm.pid"]`. If you are using `--restart always` in your docker run command the server will automatically restart.

The server will also monitor and self-correct any permissions issues it detects:

```bash
check process php-fpm with pidfile "/var/run/php-fpm.pid"
      if not exist for 10 cycles then restart
      start program = "/bin/bash -c /usr/sbin/php-fpm7 -g /var/run/php-fpm.pid" with timeout 90 seconds
      stop program = "/bin/bash -c /usr/bin/pkill -INT php-fpm"
      if cpu > 90% for 5 cycles then exec "/bin/bash -c /usr/bin/pkill -INT php-fpm"
      every 3 cycles
      if failed port {{PHP_FPM_PORT}}
        # Send FastCGI packet: version 1 (0x01), cmd FCGI_GET_VALUES (0x09)
        # padding 8 bytes (0x08), followed by 8xNULLs padding
        send "\0x01\0x09\0x00\0x00\0x00\0x00\0x08\0x00\0x00\0x00\0x00\0x00\0x00\0x00\0x00\0x00"
        # Expect FastCGI packet: version 1 (0x01), resp FCGI_GET_VALUES_RESULT (0x0A)
        expect "\0x01\0x0A"
        timeout 5 seconds
      then exec "/bin/bash -c /usr/bin/pkill -INT php-fpm"
      if failed port {{PHP_FPM_PORT}} for 10 cycles then exec "/bin/bash -c /usr/bin/pkill -INT php-fpm"

check program wwwdata-owner with path /usr/bin/env bash -c "check_wwwdata owner"
      every 3 cycles
      if status != 0 then exec "/usr/bin/env bash -c 'find {{APP_DOCROOT}} -type d -exec chown www-data:www-data {} \; && find {{APP_DOCROOT}} -type f -exec chown www-data:www-data {} \;'"

check program wwwdata-permissions with path /usr/bin/env bash -c "check_wwwdata permission"
      every 3 cycles
      if status != 0 then exec "/usr/bin/env bash -c 'find {{APP_DOCROOT}} -type d -exec chmod 755 {} \; && find {{APP_DOCROOT}} -type f -exec chmod 644 {} \;'"

check directory cache-permissions with path {{CACHE_PREFIX}}
      every 20 cycles
      if failed permission 755 then exec "/usr/bin/env bash -c 'find {{CACHE_PREFIX}} -type d -exec chmod 755 {} \;'"

check directory cache-owner with path {{CACHE_PREFIX}}
      every 20 cycles
      if failed uid www-data then exec "/usr/bin/env bash -c 'find {{CACHE_PREFIX}} -type d -exec chown www-data:www-data {} \; && find {{CACHE_PREFIX}} -type f -exec chown www-data:www-data {} \;'"

check program cache-size with path /usr/bin/env bash -c "check_folder {{CACHE_PREFIX}} 500"
      every 20 cycles
      if status != 0 then exec "/usr/bin/env bash -c 'rm -Rf /var/cache/*'"
```

# Issues

If you have any problems with or questions about this image, please contact us through a GitHub issue.

# Contributing

You are invited to contribute new features, fixes, or updates, large or small; we are always thrilled to receive pull requests, and do our best to process them as fast as we can.

Before you start to code, we recommend discussing your plans through a GitHub issue, especially for more ambitious contributions. This gives other contributors a chance to point you in the right direction, give you feedback on your design, and help you find out if someone else is working on the same thing.

# References

PHP

* https://www.kinamo.be/en/support/faq/determining-the-correct-number-of-child-processes-for-php-fpm-on-nginx
* https://www.if-not-true-then-false.com/2011/nginx-and-php-fpm-configuration-and-optimizing-tips-and-tricks/
* https://www.tecklyfe.com/adjusting-child-processes-php-fpm-nginx-fix-server-reached-pm-max_children-setting/
* https://serversforhackers.com/video/php-fpm-process-management
* https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/php-concurrency

The image is based on the official PHP docker image:
* https://github.com/docker-library/php

# License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details

Commit message:

update readme with build updates

README.md, after:

![Image of PHP](https://cdn.openbridge.com/assets/images/openbridge-php-small.png)

# Overview

This is a Docker image creates a high performance, optimized container for PHP-FPM. The image also includes configuration enhancements for;
* Alpine Linux
* Opcache
* Dynamic Resource Allocation
* Monitoring
* Security
* and many others.

# Versioning
| Docker Tag | Git Hub Release | PHP Version | Alpine Version |
|-----|-------|-----|--------|
| 7.3 | 7.3 | 7.3.x | 3.11 |
| 7.4 | develop | 7.4.x | 3.13 |
| latest | develop | 7.4.x | 3.13 |

# Build
```
docker build -t openbridge/ob_php-fpm .
```

The current default build uses Alpine version `3.11`. However, you can set the Alpine version by passing build arguments.

For example, if you want to use Alpine version `3.13`, set the `--build-arg` with `ALPINE_VERSION` as follows:

```
docker build -t ob_php-fpm --build-arg ALPINE_VERSION=3.13 .
```

or pull from Docker Hub which uses `ALPINE_VERSION=3.13` :
```
docker pull openbridge/ob_php-fpm
```

If you need a different version, you will need to run the basic build process which only takes a few seconds.

# Run
Here is a simple run command:
```bash
docker run -it --rm \
    -p 9000:9000 \
    -e "APP_DOCROOT=/app " \
    --name php-fpm \
    openbridge/php-fpm
```
Via Docker compose (see `docker-compose.yml` in the repo)
```
docker-compose up -d
```
# Setting Your `APP_DOCROOT`

The default root app directory is `/app`. If you want to change this default you need to see `APP_DOCROOT` via ENV variable. For example, if you want to use `/html` as your root you would set `APP_DOCROOT=/html`

IMPORTANT: The `APP_DOCROOT` should be the same directory that you use within NGINX for the `NGINX_DOCROOT`. Incorrectly setting the root for your web and applciation files is usually is the basis for most config errors.

# Docker Volume
To mount your web app or html files you will need to mount the volume on the host that contains your files. Make sure you are setting the `APP_DOCROOT` in your run or `docker-compose.yml` file
```docker
-v /your/webapp/path:{{APP_DOCROOT}}:ro
```
You can also set the cache directory to leverage in-memory cache like `tmpfs`:
```docker
-v /tmpfs:{{CACHE_PREFIX}}:ro
```

You can do the same thing for config files if you wanted to use versions of what we have provided. Just make sure you are mapping locations correctly as NGINX and PHP expect files to be in certain locations.

# Environment Variables
You can set the optional ENV variable resources for the container:
```
APP_DOCROOT=/app
PHP_FPM_PORT=9000
PHP_START_SERVERS=16
PHP_MIN_SPARE_SERVERS=8
PHP_MAX_SPARE_SERVERS=16
PHP_MEMORY_LIMIT=256
PHP_POST_MAX_SIZE=50
PHP_UPLOAD_MAX_FILESIZE=50
PHP_MAX_INPUT_VARS=1000
PHP_MAX_EXECUTION_TIME=300
PHP_OPCACHE_ENABLE=1
PHP_OPCACHE_MEMORY_CONSUMPTION=96
PHP_MAX_CHILDREN=16

```
However, you don't have to set any if you do not want. The default app root will be set to `app` and the default port will be `9000`. Also, the resource allocations for PHP will be calculated dynamically if they are not set (see below).


## Dynamic Resource Allocation
The PHP and cache settings are a function of the available system resources. This allocation factors in available memory and CPU which is assigned proportionately. The proportion of resources was defined according to researched best practices and reading PHP docs.

```bash
# Determine the PHP-FPM runtime environment

 CPU=$(grep -c ^processor /proc/cpuinfo); echo "${CPU}"
 TOTALMEM=$(free -m | awk '/^Mem:/{print $2}'); echo "${TOTALMEM}"

 if [[ "$CPU" -le "2" ]]; then TOTALCPU=2; else TOTALCPU="${CPU}"; fi

 # PHP-FPM settings
 if [[ -z $PHP_START_SERVERS ]]; then PHP_START_SERVERS=$(($TOTALCPU / 2)) && echo "${PHP_START_SERVERS}"; fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_MIN_SPARE_SERVERS ]]; then PHP_MIN_SPARE_SERVERS=$(($TOTALCPU / 2)) && echo "${PHP_MIN_SPARE_SERVERS}"; fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_MAX_SPARE_SERVERS ]]; then PHP_MAX_SPARE_SERVERS="${TOTALCPU}" && echo "${PHP_MAX_SPARE_SERVERS}"; fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_MEMORY_LIMIT ]]; then PHP_MEMORY_LIMIT=$(($TOTALMEM / 2)) && echo "${PHP_MEMORY_LIMIT}"; fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_MAX_CHILDREN ]]; then PHP_MAX_CHILDREN=$(($TOTALCPU * 2)) && echo "${PHP_MAX_CHILDREN}"; fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_POST_MAX_SIZE ]]; then PHP_POST_MAX_SIZE="50"; else PHP_POST_MAX_SIZE="${PHP_POST_MAX_SIZE}" fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_UPLOAD_MAX_FILESIZE ]]; then PHP_UPLOAD_MAX_FILESIZE="50"; else PHP_UPLOAD_MAX_FILESIZE="${PHP_UPLOAD_MAX_FILESIZE}" fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_MAX_INPUT_VARS ]]; then PHP_MAX_INPUT_VARS="1000"; else PHP_MAX_INPUT_VARS="${PHP_MAX_INPUT_VARS}" fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_MAX_EXECUTION_TIME ]]; then PHP_MAX_EXECUTION_TIME="300"; else PHP_MAX_EXECUTION_TIME="${PHP_MAX_EXECUTION_TIME}" fi

 # Opcache settings
 if [[ -z $PHP_OPCACHE_ENABLE ]]; then PHP_OPCACHE_ENABLE=1 && echo "${PHP_OPCACHE_ENABLE}"; fi
 if [[ -z $PHP_OPCACHE_MEMORY_CONSUMPTION ]]; then PHP_OPCACHE_MEMORY_CONSUMPTION=$(($TOTALMEM / 6)) && echo "${PHP_OPCACHE_MEMORY_CONSUMPTION}"; fi

 # Set the listening port
 if [[ -z $PHP_FPM_PORT ]]; then echo "PHP-FPM port not set. Default to 9000..." && export PHP_FPM_PORT=9000; else echo "OK, PHP-FPM port is set to $PHP_FPM_PORT"; fi
 # Set the document root. This is usually the same as your NGINX docroot
 if [[ -z $APP_DOCROOT ]]; then export APP_DOCROOT=/app && mkdir -p "${APP_DOCROOT}"; fi
 ```


# PHP-FPM Configuration
The following represents the structure of the PHP configs used in this image:

```bash
{
      echo '[global]'
      echo 'include=/etc/php7/php-fpm.d/*.conf'
} | tee /etc/php7/php-fpm.conf

{
      echo '[global]'
      echo 'error_log = {{LOG_PREFIX}}/error.log'
      echo
      echo '[www]'
      echo '; if we send this to /proc/self/fd/1, it never appears'
      echo 'access.log = {{LOG_PREFIX}}/access.log'
      echo
      echo 'clear_env = no'
      echo '; ping.path = /ping'
      echo '; Ensure worker stdout and stderr are sent to the main error log.'
      echo 'catch_workers_output = yes'
} | tee /etc/php7/php-fpm.d/docker.conf

{
      echo '[global]'
      echo 'daemonize = no'
      echo 'log_level = error'
      echo
      echo '[www]'
      echo 'user = www-data'
      echo 'group = www-data'
      echo 'listen = [::]:{{PHP_FPM_PORT}}'
      echo 'listen.mode = 0666'
      echo 'listen.owner = www-data'
      echo 'listen.group = www-data'
      echo 'pm = static'
      echo 'pm.max_children = {{PHP_MAX_CHILDREN}}'
      echo 'pm.max_requests = 1000'
      echo 'pm.start_servers = {{PHP_START_SERVERS}}'
      echo 'pm.min_spare_servers = {{PHP_MIN_SPARE_SERVERS}}'
      echo 'pm.max_spare_servers = {{PHP_MAX_SPARE_SERVERS}}'
} | tee /etc/php7/php-fpm.d/zz-docker.conf

{
      echo 'max_execution_time={{PHP_MAX_EXECUTION_TIME}}'
      echo 'memory_limit={{PHP_MEMORY_LIMIT}}M'
      echo 'error_reporting=1'
      echo 'display_errors=0'
      echo 'log_errors=1'
      echo 'user_ini.filename='
      echo 'realpath_cache_size=2M'
      echo 'cgi.check_shebang_line=0'
      echo 'date.timezone=UTC'
      echo 'short_open_tag=Off'
      echo 'session.auto_start=Off'
      echo 'upload_max_filesize={{PHP_UPLOAD_MAX_FILESIZE}}M'
      echo 'post_max_size={{PHP_POST_MAX_SIZE}}M'
      echo 'file_uploads=On'
      echo 'file_uploads=On'
      echo 'max_input_vars={{PHP_MAX_INPUT_VARS}}'

      echo
      echo 'opcache.enable={{PHP_OPCACHE_ENABLE}}'
      echo 'opcache.enable_cli=0'
      echo 'opcache.save_comments=1'
      echo 'opcache.interned_strings_buffer=8'
      echo 'opcache.fast_shutdown=1'
      echo 'opcache.validate_timestamps=2'
      echo 'opcache.revalidate_freq=15'
      echo 'opcache.use_cwd=1'
      echo 'opcache.max_accelerated_files=100000'
      echo 'opcache.max_wasted_percentage=5'
      echo 'opcache.memory_consumption={{PHP_OPCACHE_MEMORY_CONSUMPTION}}M'
      echo 'opcache.consistency_checks=0'
      echo 'opcache.huge_code_pages=1'
      echo
      echo ';opcache.file_cache="{{CACHE_PREFIX}}/fastcgi/.opcache"'
      echo ';opcache.file_cache_only=1'
      echo ';opcache.file_cache_consistency_checks=1'
} | tee /etc/php7/conf.d/50-setting.ini
```

# Permissions
We have standardized on the user, group and UID/GID to work seamlessly with NGINX

```docker
&& addgroup -g 82 -S www-data \
&& adduser -u 82 -D -S -h /var/cache/php-fpm -s /sbin/nologin -G www-data www-data \
```
We are also makign sure all the underlying permissions and owners are set correctly:

```bash
echo "Setting ownership and permissions on APP_DOCROOT and CACHE_PREFIX... "
find ${APP_DOCROOT} ! -user www-data -exec /usr/bin/env bash -c 'i="$1"; chown www-data:www-data "$i"' _ {} \;
find ${APP_DOCROOT} ! -perm 755 -type d -exec /usr/bin/env bash -c 'i="$1"; chmod 755  "$i"' _ {} \;
find ${APP_DOCROOT} ! -perm 644 -type f -exec /usr/bin/env bash -c 'i="$1"; chmod 644 "$i"' _ {} \;
find ${CACHE_PREFIX} ! -perm 755 -type d -exec /usr/bin/env bash -c 'i="$1"; chmod 755  "$i"' _ {} \;
find ${CACHE_PREFIX} ! -perm 644 -type f -exec /usr/bin/env bash -c 'i="$1"; chmod 644 "$i"' _ {} \;
```

# Cache
Opcache is enabled by default. The available cache memory is determined by the available system resources.

The cache directory is mapped to `tmpfs` as follows int he compose file:
```
tmpfs:
  - /var/cache
```

# Logging
Logs are sent to stdout and stderr PHP-FPM.
You will likely want to dispatch these logs to a service like Amazon Cloudwatch. This will allow you to setup alerts and triggers to perform tasks based on container activity.

# Monitoring
Services in the container are monitored via Monit. One thing to note is that if Monit detects a problem with PHP-FPM it will issue a `STOP` command. This will shutdown your container because the image uses `CMD ["php-fpm7", "-g", "/var/run/php-fpm.pid"]`. If you are using `--restart always` in your docker run command the server will automatically restart.

The server will also monitor and self-correct any permissions issues it detects:

```bash
check process php-fpm with pidfile "/var/run/php-fpm.pid"
      if not exist for 10 cycles then restart
      start program = "/bin/bash -c /usr/sbin/php-fpm7 -g /var/run/php-fpm.pid" with timeout 90 seconds
      stop program = "/bin/bash -c /usr/bin/pkill -INT php-fpm"
      if cpu > 90% for 5 cycles then exec "/bin/bash -c /usr/bin/pkill -INT php-fpm"
      every 3 cycles
      if failed port {{PHP_FPM_PORT}}
        # Send FastCGI packet: version 1 (0x01), cmd FCGI_GET_VALUES (0x09)
        # padding 8 bytes (0x08), followed by 8xNULLs padding
        send "\0x01\0x09\0x00\0x00\0x00\0x00\0x08\0x00\0x00\0x00\0x00\0x00\0x00\0x00\0x00\0x00"
        # Expect FastCGI packet: version 1 (0x01), resp FCGI_GET_VALUES_RESULT (0x0A)
        expect "\0x01\0x0A"
        timeout 5 seconds
      then exec "/bin/bash -c /usr/bin/pkill -INT php-fpm"
      if failed port {{PHP_FPM_PORT}} for 10 cycles then exec "/bin/bash -c /usr/bin/pkill -INT php-fpm"

check program wwwdata-owner with path /usr/bin/env bash -c "check_wwwdata owner"
      every 3 cycles
      if status != 0 then exec "/usr/bin/env bash -c 'find {{APP_DOCROOT}} -type d -exec chown www-data:www-data {} \; && find {{APP_DOCROOT}} -type f -exec chown www-data:www-data {} \;'"

check program wwwdata-permissions with path /usr/bin/env bash -c "check_wwwdata permission"
      every 3 cycles
      if status != 0 then exec "/usr/bin/env bash -c 'find {{APP_DOCROOT}} -type d -exec chmod 755 {} \; && find {{APP_DOCROOT}} -type f -exec chmod 644 {} \;'"

check directory cache-permissions with path {{CACHE_PREFIX}}
      every 20 cycles
      if failed permission 755 then exec "/usr/bin/env bash -c 'find {{CACHE_PREFIX}} -type d -exec chmod 755 {} \;'"

check directory cache-owner with path {{CACHE_PREFIX}}
      every 20 cycles
      if failed uid www-data then exec "/usr/bin/env bash -c 'find {{CACHE_PREFIX}} -type d -exec chown www-data:www-data {} \; && find {{CACHE_PREFIX}} -type f -exec chown www-data:www-data {} \;'"

check program cache-size with path /usr/bin/env bash -c "check_folder {{CACHE_PREFIX}} 500"
      every 20 cycles
      if status != 0 then exec "/usr/bin/env bash -c 'rm -Rf /var/cache/*'"
```

# Issues

If you have any problems with or questions about this image, please contact us through a GitHub issue.

# Contributing

You are invited to contribute new features, fixes, or updates, large or small; we are always thrilled to receive pull requests, and do our best to process them as fast as we can.

Before you start to code, we recommend discussing your plans through a GitHub issue, especially for more ambitious contributions. This gives other contributors a chance to point you in the right direction, give you feedback on your design, and help you find out if someone else is working on the same thing.

# References

PHP

* https://www.kinamo.be/en/support/faq/determining-the-correct-number-of-child-processes-for-php-fpm-on-nginx
* https://www.if-not-true-then-false.com/2011/nginx-and-php-fpm-configuration-and-optimizing-tips-and-tricks/
* https://www.tecklyfe.com/adjusting-child-processes-php-fpm-nginx-fix-server-reached-pm-max_children-setting/
* https://serversforhackers.com/video/php-fpm-process-management
* https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/php-concurrency

The image is based on the official PHP docker image:
* https://github.com/docker-library/php

# License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details
